---
layout: default
title: "100Hue"
parent: Beauchamp
---
# 100Hue


|  |  |
| --- | --- |
|  | Beauchamp Lab wiki |

- [Home](index.md "Beauchamp")
- [Publications](Publications.md "Beauchamp:Publications")
- [Resources](DataSharing.md "Beauchamp:DataSharing")

## Notes on the Farnsworth-Munsell 100-Hue Stimuli

The Farnsworth-Munsell 100 Hue test is a behavioral test of color vision.

It was adapted for use in the fMRI scanner as described in

1. Beauchamp, M.S., Haxby, J.V., Jennings, J.E., and DeYoe, E.A.: An fMRI version of the Farnsworth-Munsell 100-Hue test reveals multiple color-selective areas in human ventral occipitotemporal cortex. Cereb Cortex 9: 257-263, 1999. [Click here to download the PDF.](../../attachments/100Hue/BeauchampCerCor99.pdf "BeauchampCerCor99.pdf") [Click here for the related journal cover image](../../attachments/100Hue/BeauchampCerCor99Cover.pdf "BeauchampCerCor99Cover.pdf")
2. Beauchamp, M.S., Haxby, J.V., Rosen, A.C., and DeYoe, E.A.: A functional MRI case study of acquired cerebral dyschromatopsia. Neuropsychologia 38:1170-1179, 2000. [Click here to download the PDF](../../attachments/100Hue/BeauchampNeuropsychologia2000.pdf "BeauchampNeuropsychologia2000.pdf")

In these publications, stimuli was presented using a Cambridge Research Systems graphics board. Each color was calibrated to be the same brightness as every color using flicker photometry. This is important because the F-M 100 Hue test requires subjects to place the colors in order by hue. If the colors differ in brightness, subjects could "cheat" and use brightness as a cue.
However, equating brightnesses is time-consuming.
Therefore, the fMRI adaptation was further adapted to eliminate the brightness matching step as described in

1. Simmons, W. K., Ramjee, V., Beauchamp, M. S., McRae, K., Martin, A., and Barsalou, L. W.: A common neural substrate for perceiving and knowing about color. Neuropsychologia 45:2802-2810, 2007. [Click here to download the PDF](../../attachments/100Hue/SimmonsetalNeuropsychologia2007.pdf "SimmonsetalNeuropsychologia2007.pdf")

These stimuli consist of JPGs of colored and black and white stimuli. To localize color-selective areas, present separate blocks of colored stimuli and black-and-white stimuli, one stimulus every two to three seconds; a brief interstimulus interval (500 ms was used in Cerebral Cortex article above) is also a good idea. Twenty second blocks of stimulation interspersed with 10 seconds of fixation could work reasonably well.
Click here to download a .zip file of the stimulus archive
[Beauchamp100HueStimuli|](../../attachments/100Hue/Beauchamp100HueStimuli.zip "Beauchamp100HueStimuli.zip")
